#summary design guideline for database fields
#labels Phase-Developer

= Introduction =

These guidelines define naming conventions for database fields.
The aim is to have a more unique structure and to gain more database performance


= Naming convention =

First start with a few general naming conventions:
  * Table names should be singular (user, not users)
  * The tables primary key should be called "table name" + "id" (i.e. userid)
  * Field names should rather be CamelCase, than using "_"
  * Foreign keys should, in most cases, be called just like the key, they refer to. (Exception: if the table refers twice to the same id. i.e. author -> userid and agent -> userid)
(unfortunately there are quite a lot of tables, that don't stick to these rules yet, but this will hopefully change in the future)

Next there are a few very Lansuite specific rules (most of them due to definitions in Mastersearch):
  * Boolean fields (Checkboxes) need to be "tinyint(1)"
  * IP fields need to be "int(11) unsigned" and be called "ip"
  * Password fields need to be "char(32)"

And last there are a few conventions that should be sticked to due to performance reasons:
  * Foreign keys should have the exact same type, as the primary one they refer to.
  * Foreign keys should always have "IND"-Key set! (probably the most important performance rule)
  * Fields filtered by in any where clause should have "IND"-Key set
  * Use timestamp, instead of date = NOW() if a date should update on each Insert/Update.
  * Primary key fields, in most cases, are "mediumint(8) unsigned". If this is not sufficent, use "int(11) unsigned"
  * Define a PRI for every table (except tables existing just for the reason to link two others)

These are all rules I can think of by now.
Feel free to extend and discuss